
Red Pepper-Polenta Fries Chpe Corn Jus

R*M steaks evenly with oil. Sprinkle with salt and pepper.

GRILL steaks, covered with grill lid, over medium-high heat (350' to 400') 
5 minutes on each side or
to desired degree of doneness. Serve with Red Pepper-Polenta Fries and 
Chile Corn Jus. Yield: 8
servings.

Prep: 45 min., Cook: 13 min., Chill: 2 hrs.

RED PEPPER POLENTA FRIES

I tablespoon butter or margarine
I small onion, diced
I small red bell pepper, minced
I cup whipping cream
I cup chicken broth
1% cups yellow cornmeal, divided
3 tablespoons shredded MontereX
	Jack cheese
1 tablespoon chopped fresh cliantro
3 cups peanut oil
1 teaspoon salt

chefs' backgrounds and recipeFWFOI southernliving.com

MELT butter in a large skillet over mediumhigh heat; add onion and bell 
pepper, and saut6 3 minutes
or until tender. Stir in whipping cream and broth, and bring to a boil. Add 
I cup cornmeal; cook,
whisking often, 3 to 5 minutes or until mixture is very thick. Remove from 
heat. Stir in shredded
cheese and cilantro.

SPOON polenta into a lightly greased 9- x 5-inch loafpan. Chill 2 hours.

CUT polenta into 1/2-inch-thick slices; cut each slice into 4 strips. 
Sprinkle evenly with remaining
1/2 cup cornmeal.

POUR peanut oil into a Dutch oven, and heat to 375'. Add polenta strips, 
and fry, in batches, 3
minutes or until golden brown. Drain on paper towels. Sprinkle with salt. 
Yield: 8 servings.

Prep: 20 min., Chill: 2 hrs., Fry: 3 min.

CHILE CORN JUS:

I ear fresh corn
2 plum tomatoes, diced
2 tablespoons minced onion
1/4 medium ancho chile, chopped
2 tablespoons butter or margarine
1/4 cup chicken broth
I teaspoon chopped fresh cilantro
:V4 teaspoon salt
V4 teaspoon pepper

CUT corn kernels from cob.

COOK corn in a lightly greased skillet over medium-high heat 3 minutes. 
Stir in tomato and
remaining ingredients. Reduce heat, and simmer 2 minutes. Yield: I cup.

Prep: 15 min., Cook: 5 min. Kevin Rathbun

AUGUST 2000 93
