Food Network: Recipes

            Bread Pudding with Southern Bourbon Sauce
            Recipe courtesy Barbara Garett

             Recipe Summary
            Prep Time: 25 minutesCook Time: 50 minutes
            Yield: 6 servings 
      3 cups stale French bread, cut in 3/4-inch cubes 
      2 cups milk 
      2 eggs 
      1 cup sugar 
      1 tablespoon vanilla extract 
      1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 
      1/4 teaspoon nutmeg 
      4 tablespoons butter, melted and slightly cooled 
      1/2 cup sultana raisins
      Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. 
      Place stale bread in a bowl with milk and squeeze the bread with your hand 
      until well saturated with milk. 
      With an electric mixer on high speed in a separate bowl, beat eggs with 
      sugar until thick and pale. Stir in the vanilla, cinnamon, nutmeg, butter 
      and raisins to the egg mixture. Add the soaked bread crumbs to the egg 
      mixture and stir well. Let stand for 10 minutes. It is important to allow 
      enough time for the bread to absorb the egg mixture or the bread crumbs 
      will float to the top during baking, leaving a layer of custard on the 
      bottom of the dish. 
      Transfer the mixture to a greased baking dish. Bake until firm, or until a 
      knife inserted in the middle comes out clean, about 45 to 50 minutes. Let 
      it slightly cool in the dish.
      Bourbon Sauce: 
      2 egg yolks 
      1 stick butter, not margarine 
      1 cup sugar 
      1/3 cup bourbon whiskey, to taste
      Meanwhile, near the end of the baking time, make the sauce. With an 
      electric mixer, beat egg yolks until thick and pale. In a saucepan, melt 
      the butter and sugar. Pour the butter and sugar mixture over the egg 
      yolks, beating constantly with the mixer, until well thickened. Stir in 
      bourbon by hand. Serve the pudding warm with vanilla ice cream if desired. 
      Pass the hot bourbon sauce separately. 
      The recipes for this program, which were provided by contributors and 
      guests who may not be professional chefs, have not been tested in the Food 
      Network?s kitchens. Therefore, the Food Network cannot attest to the 
      accuracy of any of the recipes

      Episode#: CA1B20
      Copyright © 2003 Television Food Network, G.P., All Rights Reserved
