FoodTV Recipe - Chris' Kicked Up Spicy Walnut Chocolate Chip Peanut Butter Cookies 


      Chris' Kicked Up Spicy Walnut Chocolate Chip Peanut Butter Cookies
      Recipe courtesy Chris Hanrahan
      Cookie batter: 
      1/2 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
      1/2 cup dark brown sugar 
      1/2 cup cane sugar
      1 egg
      1 cup natural creamy peanut butter 
      1/2 teaspoon vanilla
      1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
      1/2 teaspoon salt
      1/2 cup chocolate chips
      1 cup all-purpose flour

      Spicy Walnuts:
      1 tablespoon canola oil
      1 tablespoon Chinese chile oil
      1/2 cup finely diced walnuts
      1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
      1/8 teaspoon powdered ginger
      1/8 teaspoon nutmeg
      2 tablespoons sugar
      Heat oven to 375 degrees F, line a couple cookie sheets with parchment 
      paper (or butter the pans). 
      Prepare the cookie batter first. In a mixer, mix the butter until it is 
      soft and creamy. Then add both the brown and cane sugar, until it is well 
      mixed. After that is mixed, add the egg, peanut butter, vanilla, baking 
      soda, and salt. Finally, add the chocolate chips. Set aside. 
      In a medium sized skillet; add the canola oil and chile oil, heat on the 
      range until sizzling. Add the walnuts, and toss for a couple minutes until 
      golden brown. Add the cayenne, ginger, and nutmeg. Continue to toss for 
      another 1 to 2 minutes. Finally add the sugar to soak in all the goodness 
      at the bottom of the pan. (I strain them to make sure no oil goes into the 
      cookie mix.) 
      Add the walnuts to the batter. Finally, fold the flour into batter, but 
      don't mix too well. (If you need a wee bit more flour, don't hesitate to 
      add, but the walnuts make for less of a need for large amounts of flour.) 
      Once the flour is folded in, scoop out spoonfuls of dough, and place them 
      on the prepared pan. Press down with fork. Bake for 14 to 17 minutes 
      (depending on your oven) until golden brown. Let cool on rack. The spicy 
      walnuts add a crunch and a finish that is quite a fun surprise.
      Yield: 3 dozen coolies
      Prep Time: 25 minutes
      Cook Time: 24 minutes
      Difficulty: Medium





      Episode #: EM1E67 

